docs/content/faq.md, before:

+++
title = "FAQ"
weight = 25

[extra]
group = "Reference"
+++

## What commands does Worktrunk execute?

Worktrunk executes commands in three contexts:

1. **Project hooks** (`.config/wt.toml`) — Automation for worktree lifecycle
2. **LLM commands** (`~/.config/worktrunk/config.toml`) — Commit message generation
3. **--execute flag** — Commands you provide explicitly

Commands from project hooks and LLM configuration require approval on first run. Approved commands are saved to user config. If a command changes, Worktrunk requires new approval.

### Example approval prompt

<!-- ⚠️ AUTO-GENERATED from tests/integration_tests/snapshots/integration__integration_tests__shell_wrapper__tests__readme_example_approval_prompt.snap — edit source to update -->

```
🟡 repo needs approval to execute 3 commands:

⚪ post-create install:
   echo 'Installing dependencies...'

⚪ post-create build:
   echo 'Building project...'

⚪ post-create test:
   echo 'Running tests...'

❓ Allow and remember? [y/N]
```

<!-- END AUTO-GENERATED -->

Use `--force` to bypass prompts (useful for CI/automation).

## How does Worktrunk compare to alternatives?

### vs. branch switching

Branch switching uses one directory: uncommitted changes from one agent get mixed with the next agent's work, or block switching entirely. Worktrees give each agent its own directory with independent files and index.

### vs. Plain `git worktree`

Git's built-in worktree commands work but require manual lifecycle management:

```bash
# Plain git worktree workflow
git worktree add -b feature-branch ../myapp-feature main
cd ../myapp-feature
# ...work, commit, push...
cd ../myapp
git merge feature-branch
git worktree remove ../myapp-feature
git branch -d feature-branch
```

Worktrunk automates the full lifecycle:

```bash
wt switch --create feature-branch  # Creates worktree, runs setup hooks
# ...work...
wt merge                            # Squashes, merges, removes worktree
```

What `git worktree` doesn't provide:

- Consistent directory naming and cleanup validation
- Project-specific automation (install dependencies, start services)
- Unified status across all worktrees (commits, CI, conflicts, changes)

### vs. git-machete / git-town

Different scopes:

- **git-machete**: Branch stack management in a single directory
- **git-town**: Git workflow automation in a single directory
- **worktrunk**: Multi-worktree management with hooks and status aggregation

These tools can be used together—run git-machete or git-town inside individual worktrees.

### vs. Git TUIs (lazygit, gh-dash, etc.)

Git TUIs operate on a single repository. Worktrunk manages multiple worktrees, runs automation hooks, and aggregates status across branches. TUIs work inside each worktree directory.

## How does Worktrunk determine the default branch?

Worktrunk checks the local git cache first, queries the remote if needed, and falls back to local inference when no remote exists. The result is cached for fast subsequent lookups.

If your remote's default branch has changed (e.g., renamed from master to main), refresh with `wt config cache refresh`.

For full details on the detection mechanism, see `wt config cache --help`.

## How does wt switch resolve branch names?

Arguments resolve by checking the filesystem before git branches:

1. Compute expected path from argument (using configured path template)
2. If worktree exists at that path, switch to it
3. Otherwise, look up as branch name
4. If the path and branch resolve to different worktrees (e.g., `repo.foo/` tracks branch `bar`), the path takes precedence

## On Windows, `wt` conflicts with Windows Terminal

Windows Terminal uses `wt` as its command-line launcher, so running `wt` invokes Terminal instead of Worktrunk.

As an immediate workaround, install as `git-wt`:

```bash
cargo install worktrunk --features git-wt
git-wt config shell install
```

This creates a `git-wt` shell function with directory changing and completions.

`git wt` (as a git subcommand) also works but cannot change directories since git runs subcommands as subprocesses.

We're considering better solutions — a better name, anyone?

## Does Worktrunk work on Windows?

**Experimental.** Core functionality works, but some features are unavailable.

| Feature | Git Bash | PowerShell |
|---------|----------|------------|
| Core commands (`list`, `switch`, `merge`, etc.) | ✅ | ✅ |
| Shell integration | ✅ | ✅ |
| Tab completion | ✅ | ✅ |
| Hooks | ✅ | ❌ (bash syntax) |
| `wt select` | ❌ | ❌ |

**Git Bash** (recommended) comes with [Git for Windows](https://gitforwindows.org/). Worktrunk auto-detects it when installed.

**PowerShell** works for basic operations, but hooks fail in pure PowerShell because they use bash syntax. With Git for Windows installed, Worktrunk auto-detects Git Bash for hook execution even when PowerShell is the interactive shell.

**`wt select`** uses [skim](https://github.com/skim-rs/skim), which only supports Unix. Use `wt list` and `wt switch <branch>` instead.

## Installation fails with C compilation errors

Errors related to tree-sitter or C compilation (C99 mode, `le16toh` undefined) can be avoided by installing without syntax highlighting:

```bash
$ cargo install worktrunk --no-default-features
```

This disables bash syntax highlighting in command output but keeps all core functionality. The syntax highlighting feature requires C99 compiler support and can fail on older systems or minimal Docker images.

## Running tests (for contributors)

### Quick tests

```bash
$ cargo test
```

### Full integration tests

Shell integration tests require bash, zsh, and fish:

```bash
$ cargo test --test integration --features shell-integration-tests
```

## How can I contribute?

- Star the repo
- Try it out and [open an issue](https://github.com/max-sixty/worktrunk/issues) with feedback
- What worktree friction does Worktrunk not yet solve? [Tell us](https://github.com/max-sixty/worktrunk/issues)
- Send to a friend
- Post about it on [X](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Worktrunk%20%E2%80%94%20CLI%20for%20git%20worktree%20management&url=https%3A%2F%2Fworktrunk.dev), [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fworktrunk.dev&title=Worktrunk%20%E2%80%94%20CLI%20for%20git%20worktree%20management), or [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/sharing/share-offsite/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fworktrunk.dev)

Commit message:

Release v0.2.0 and always build git-wt binary
Remove git-wt feature gate to build git-wt binary by default alongside wt.
Both binaries are now installed automatically, providing a workaround for
Windows Terminal's wt command conflict.

docs/content/faq.md, after:

+++
title = "FAQ"
weight = 25

[extra]
group = "Reference"
+++

## What commands does Worktrunk execute?

Worktrunk executes commands in three contexts:

1. **Project hooks** (`.config/wt.toml`) — Automation for worktree lifecycle
2. **LLM commands** (`~/.config/worktrunk/config.toml`) — Commit message generation
3. **--execute flag** — Commands you provide explicitly

Commands from project hooks and LLM configuration require approval on first run. Approved commands are saved to user config. If a command changes, Worktrunk requires new approval.

### Example approval prompt

<!-- ⚠️ AUTO-GENERATED from tests/integration_tests/snapshots/integration__integration_tests__shell_wrapper__tests__readme_example_approval_prompt.snap — edit source to update -->

```
🟡 repo needs approval to execute 3 commands:

⚪ post-create install:
   echo 'Installing dependencies...'

⚪ post-create build:
   echo 'Building project...'

⚪ post-create test:
   echo 'Running tests...'

❓ Allow and remember? [y/N]
```

<!-- END AUTO-GENERATED -->

Use `--force` to bypass prompts (useful for CI/automation).

## How does Worktrunk compare to alternatives?

### vs. branch switching

Branch switching uses one directory: uncommitted changes from one agent get mixed with the next agent's work, or block switching entirely. Worktrees give each agent its own directory with independent files and index.

### vs. Plain `git worktree`

Git's built-in worktree commands work but require manual lifecycle management:

```bash
# Plain git worktree workflow
git worktree add -b feature-branch ../myapp-feature main
cd ../myapp-feature
# ...work, commit, push...
cd ../myapp
git merge feature-branch
git worktree remove ../myapp-feature
git branch -d feature-branch
```

Worktrunk automates the full lifecycle:

```bash
wt switch --create feature-branch  # Creates worktree, runs setup hooks
# ...work...
wt merge                            # Squashes, merges, removes worktree
```

What `git worktree` doesn't provide:

- Consistent directory naming and cleanup validation
- Project-specific automation (install dependencies, start services)
- Unified status across all worktrees (commits, CI, conflicts, changes)

### vs. git-machete / git-town

Different scopes:

- **git-machete**: Branch stack management in a single directory
- **git-town**: Git workflow automation in a single directory
- **worktrunk**: Multi-worktree management with hooks and status aggregation

These tools can be used together—run git-machete or git-town inside individual worktrees.

### vs. Git TUIs (lazygit, gh-dash, etc.)

Git TUIs operate on a single repository. Worktrunk manages multiple worktrees, runs automation hooks, and aggregates status across branches. TUIs work inside each worktree directory.

## How does Worktrunk determine the default branch?

Worktrunk checks the local git cache first, queries the remote if needed, and falls back to local inference when no remote exists. The result is cached for fast subsequent lookups.

If your remote's default branch has changed (e.g., renamed from master to main), refresh with `wt config cache refresh`.

For full details on the detection mechanism, see `wt config cache --help`.

## How does wt switch resolve branch names?

Arguments resolve by checking the filesystem before git branches:

1. Compute expected path from argument (using configured path template)
2. If worktree exists at that path, switch to it
3. Otherwise, look up as branch name
4. If the path and branch resolve to different worktrees (e.g., `repo.foo/` tracks branch `bar`), the path takes precedence

## On Windows, `wt` conflicts with Windows Terminal

Windows Terminal uses `wt` as its command-line launcher, so running `wt` invokes Terminal instead of Worktrunk.

**Workaround:** Use `git-wt` instead. Both `wt` and `git-wt` binaries are installed by default:

```bash
git-wt config shell install
```

This creates a `git-wt` shell function with directory changing and completions.

`git wt` (as a git subcommand) also works but cannot change directories since git runs subcommands as subprocesses.

We're considering better solutions — a better name, anyone?

## Does Worktrunk work on Windows?

**Experimental.** Core functionality works, but some features are unavailable.

| Feature | Git Bash | PowerShell |
|---------|----------|------------|
| Core commands (`list`, `switch`, `merge`, etc.) | ✅ | ✅ |
| Shell integration | ✅ | ✅ |
| Tab completion | ✅ | ✅ |
| Hooks | ✅ | ❌ (bash syntax) |
| `wt select` | ❌ | ❌ |

**Git Bash** (recommended) comes with [Git for Windows](https://gitforwindows.org/). Worktrunk auto-detects it when installed.

**PowerShell** works for basic operations, but hooks fail in pure PowerShell because they use bash syntax. With Git for Windows installed, Worktrunk auto-detects Git Bash for hook execution even when PowerShell is the interactive shell.

**`wt select`** uses [skim](https://github.com/skim-rs/skim), which only supports Unix. Use `wt list` and `wt switch <branch>` instead.

## Installation fails with C compilation errors

Errors related to tree-sitter or C compilation (C99 mode, `le16toh` undefined) can be avoided by installing without syntax highlighting:

```bash
$ cargo install worktrunk --no-default-features
```

This disables bash syntax highlighting in command output but keeps all core functionality. The syntax highlighting feature requires C99 compiler support and can fail on older systems or minimal Docker images.

## Running tests (for contributors)

### Quick tests

```bash
$ cargo test
```

### Full integration tests

Shell integration tests require bash, zsh, and fish:

```bash
$ cargo test --test integration --features shell-integration-tests
```

## How can I contribute?

- Star the repo
- Try it out and [open an issue](https://github.com/max-sixty/worktrunk/issues) with feedback
- What worktree friction does Worktrunk not yet solve? [Tell us](https://github.com/max-sixty/worktrunk/issues)
- Send to a friend
- Post about it on [X](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Worktrunk%20%E2%80%94%20CLI%20for%20git%20worktree%20management&url=https%3A%2F%2Fworktrunk.dev), [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fworktrunk.dev&title=Worktrunk%20%E2%80%94%20CLI%20for%20git%20worktree%20management), or [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/sharing/share-offsite/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fworktrunk.dev)
